
# Concept Schemes in this file

[Instruments used to analyze geologic samples](#Instrumentsusedtoanalyzegeologicsamples)

[Analytical methods for geochemistry](#Analyticalmethodsforgeochemistry)

[Workflow components in geological sample analysis methods](#Workflowcomponentsingeologicalsampleanalysismethods)


This file generated at: "2023-02-16T15:47:58.766881+00:00"
---
comment: | 
  WARNING: This file is generated. Any edits will be lost!
execute:
  echo: false
---

[]{#Instrumentsusedtoanalyzegeologicsamples}

# **Concept scheme:** Instruments used to analyze geologic samples

Vocabulary last modified:  2023-02-09

subtitle: 
  This concept scheme contains skos concepts for instruments used to characterize geologic samples.

Namespace: 
[`http://w3id.org/def/geochem/analyticaltechnique/instrument`](http://w3id.org/def/geochem/analyticaltechnique/instrument)

**History**


- [Analytical Instrument](#analyticalinstrument)
    - [Bioanalytical instrument](#bioanalyticalinstrument)
        - [Flow Cytometer](#flowcytometer)
        - [qPCR Cycler](#qpcrcycler)
    - [Chromatography Stationary Bed](#chromatographystationarybed)
        - [Gas Chromatography Column](#gaschromatographycolumn)
            - [Gas Chromatography Flame Ionization Detector](#gaschromatographyflameionizationdetector)
            - [Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometer](#gaschromatographymassspectrometer)
            - [Gas Chromatography Thermal Conductivity Detector](#gaschromatographythermalconductivitydetector)
            - [Pyrolysis Gas Chromatography Flame Ionization Detector](#pyrolysisgaschromatographyflameionizationdetector)
            - [Pyrolysis Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometer](#pyrolysisgaschromatographymassspectrometer)
        - [Liquid Chromatography Column](#liquidchromatographycolumn)
            - [High Performance Liquid Chromatograph](#highperformanceliquidchromatograph)
            - [Ion Chromatograph](#ionchromatograph)
            - [Liquid Chromatography Organic Carbon Detection Instrument](#liquidchromatographyorganiccarbondetection)
    - [Current-Wind Meters](#currentwindmeters)
        - [Anemometers](#anemometers)
        - [Eddy Correlation Devices](#eddycorrelationdevices)
    - [Electrochemical instrument](#electrochemicalinstrument)
        - [Amperometric Sensor](#amperometricsensor)
        - [Conductivity Sensor](#conductivitysensor)
        - [pH-sensitive electrode](#phsensitiveelectrode)
        - [Potentiometric Sensor](#potentiometricsensor)
        - [Redox Electrode](#redoxelectrode)
    - [Electron-Optical Instrument](#electronopticalinstrument)
        - [Electron Microprobe](#electronmicroprobe)
        - [Scanning Electron Microscope](#scanningelectronmicroscope)
        - [Transmission Electron Microscope](#transmissionelectronmicroscope)
    - [Elemental Analyzer](#elementalanalyzer)
        - [Carbon Analyzer](#carbonanalyzer)
            - [Total Organic Carbon Analyzer](#totalorganiccarbonanalyzer)
    - [Magnetometer](#magnetometer)
    - [Material property measurement instrument](#materialpropertyinstrument)
        - [Differential Scanning Calorimeter](#differentialscanningcalorimeter)
        - [Porosimeter](#porosimeter)
        - [Soil Heat Flux Transducer](#soilheatfluxtransducer)
        - [Tensiometer](#tensiometer)
        - [Variable Field Translation Balance](#variablefieldtranslationbalance)
    - [Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectrometer](#nuclearmagneticresonancespectrometer)
    - [Optical instrument](#opticalinstrument)
        - [Binocular](#binocular)
        - [Microscope](#microscope)
            - [Confocal Laser Scanning Microscope](#confocallaserscanningmicroscope)
            - [Fluorescence Microscope](#fluorescencemicroscope)
    - [Photometer](#photometer)
    - [Spectrometer](#spectrometer)
        - [Atomic Absorption Spectrometer](#atomicabsorptionspectrometer)
        - [Fluorometer](#fluorometer)
        - [Mass Spectrometer](#massspectrometer)
            - [Elemental Analyzer Isotope Ratio Mass Spectrometer](#elementalanalyzerisotoperatiomassspectrometer)
            - [Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometer](#inductivelycoupledplasmamassspectrometer)
                - [Multicollector Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometer](#multicollectorinductivelycoupledplasmamassspectrometer)
            - [Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometer](#secondaryionmassspectrometer)
        - [Raman Spectrometer](#ramanspectrometer)
        - [Spectrofluorometer](#spectrofluorometer)
        - [Spectrophotometer](#spectrophotometer)
        - [Spectroradiometer](#spectroradiometer)
        - [X-Ray Fluorescence Spectrometer](#xrayfluorescencespectrometer)
            - [Micro-X-Ray Fluorescence Spectrometer](#microxrayfluorescencespectrometer)
    - [X-Ray Diffractometer ](#xraydiffractometer)
        - [Single Crystal X-Ray Diffractometer](#singlecrystalxraydiffractometer)
        - [X-Ray Powder Diffractometer](#xraypowderdiffractometer)

**Concepts**

[]{#analyticalinstrument}

##  Analytical Instrument


- top concept for instruments

- **Source:**
add top concept

- Concept URI token: analyticalinstrument


[]{#bioanalyticalinstrument}

###  Bioanalytical instrument


- Child of:
 [`analyticalinstrument`](#analyticalinstrument)

-

- **Source:**
Instrument general types

- Concept URI token: bioanalyticalinstrument


[]{#flowcytometer}

####  Flow Cytometer


- Child of:
 [`bioanalyticalinstrument`](#bioanalyticalinstrument)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: flowcytometer


[]{#qpcrcycler}

####  qPCR Cycler


- Child of:
 [`bioanalyticalinstrument`](#bioanalyticalinstrument)

- Real-time PCR thermal cyclers, or qPCR machines, quantify DNA copies
and enable experiments in gene expression, genetic variation,
genotyping, and specific detection of rare targets, bacteria, and
viruses. Real-time PCR instruments measure signals generated by
fluorescent probes that are proportional to DNA amplification,
allowing accurate quantification. These specialized instruments are
capable of quantifying very small amounts of DNA with good dynamic
range. In addition, data can be readily analyzed without post-PCR
processing, such as running agarose gels.
(https://www.biocompare.com/PCR-Real-Time-PCR/22353-Real-Time-PCR-
Thermal-Cyclers-Thermocyclers/)

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: qpcrcycler


[]{#chromatographystationarybed}

###  Chromatography Stationary Bed


- Child of:
 [`analyticalinstrument`](#analyticalinstrument)

-

- **Source:**
Instrument general types

- Concept URI token: chromatographystationarybed


[]{#gaschromatographycolumn}

####  Gas Chromatography Column


- Child of:
 [`chromatographystationarybed`](#chromatographystationarybed)

-

- **Source:**
Instrument general types

- Concept URI token: gaschromatographycolumn


[]{#gaschromatographyflameionizationdetector}

#####  Gas Chromatography Flame Ionization Detector


- Child of:
 [`gaschromatographycolumn`](#gaschromatographycolumn)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: gaschromatographyflameionizationdetector


[]{#gaschromatographymassspectrometer}

#####  Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometer


- Child of:
 [`gaschromatographycolumn`](#gaschromatographycolumn)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: gaschromatographymassspectrometer


[]{#gaschromatographythermalconductivitydetector}

#####  Gas Chromatography Thermal Conductivity Detector


- Child of:
 [`gaschromatographycolumn`](#gaschromatographycolumn)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: gaschromatographythermalconductivitydetector


[]{#pyrolysisgaschromatographyflameionizationdetector}

#####  Pyrolysis Gas Chromatography Flame Ionization Detector


- Child of:
 [`gaschromatographycolumn`](#gaschromatographycolumn)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: pyrolysisgaschromatographyflameionizationdetector


[]{#pyrolysisgaschromatographymassspectrometer}

#####  Pyrolysis Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometer


- Child of:
 [`gaschromatographycolumn`](#gaschromatographycolumn)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: pyrolysisgaschromatographymassspectrometer


[]{#liquidchromatographycolumn}

####  Liquid Chromatography Column


- Child of:
 [`chromatographystationarybed`](#chromatographystationarybed)

-

- **Source:**
Instrument general types

- Concept URI token: liquidchromatographycolumn


[]{#highperformanceliquidchromatograph}

#####  High Performance Liquid Chromatograph


- Child of:
 [`liquidchromatographycolumn`](#liquidchromatographycolumn)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: highperformanceliquidchromatograph


[]{#ionchromatograph}

#####  Ion Chromatograph


- Child of:
 [`liquidchromatographycolumn`](#liquidchromatographycolumn)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: ionchromatograph


[]{#liquidchromatographyorganiccarbondetection}

#####  Liquid Chromatography Organic Carbon Detection Instrument


- Child of:
 [`liquidchromatographycolumn`](#liquidchromatographycolumn)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: liquidchromatographyorganiccarbondetection


[]{#currentwindmeters}

###  Current-Wind Meters


- Child of:
 [`analyticalinstrument`](#analyticalinstrument)

-

- **Source:**
Instrument general types

- Concept URI token: currentwindmeters


[]{#anemometers}

####  Anemometers


- Child of:
 [`currentwindmeters`](#currentwindmeters)

- a device that measures wind speed and direction.

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: anemometers


[]{#eddycorrelationdevices}

####  Eddy Correlation Devices


- Child of:
 [`currentwindmeters`](#currentwindmeters)

- EDDY CORRELATION DEVICES are devices that use the method of
measuring the flux densities of mass, heat, and momentum across a
plane at a point in turbulent flow; EDDY CORRELATION is defined as the
covariance between two variables associated with turbulent motions.. .
EDDY CORRELATION DEVICES are devices that use the method of measuring
the flux densities of mass, heat, and momentum across a plane at a
point in turbulent flow; EDDY CORRELATION is defined as the covariance
between two variables associated with turbulent motions. (Source:
NASA; UUID: f5a3c5f6-b575-48f4-8479-2bc4092c8f99)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: eddycorrelationdevices


[]{#electrochemicalinstrument}

###  Electrochemical instrument


- Child of:
 [`analyticalinstrument`](#analyticalinstrument)

-

- **Source:**
Instrument general types

- Concept URI token: electrochemicalinstrument


[]{#amperometricsensor}

####  Amperometric Sensor


- Child of:
 [`electrochemicalinstrument`](#electrochemicalinstrument)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: amperometricsensor


[]{#conductivitysensor}

####  Conductivity Sensor


- Child of:
 [`electrochemicalinstrument`](#electrochemicalinstrument)

- Sensor that measures the electrical conductance per unit distance in
an electrolytic or aqueous solution. (Source: NASA; UUID:
b5d7c2cb-60c4-4dfe-bdc9-31e9fcc97dd0)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: conductivitysensor


[]{#phsensitiveelectrode}

####  pH-sensitive electrode


- Child of:
 [`electrochemicalinstrument`](#electrochemicalinstrument)

- Potentiometric electrochemical sensor that measures pH as a linear
function of electrode potential. Measurement principles or methods
include the use of an ion-selective electrode (see glass pH-sensitive
electrode), ion-selective field effect transistor, metal-metal oxide
electrodes, or redox electrode (e.g. hydrogen electrode, quinhydrone
electrode). (Source: IUPAC;  https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2018-0109).

- **Source:**
DFG

- Concept URI token: phsensitiveelectrode


[]{#potentiometricsensor}

####  Potentiometric Sensor


- Child of:
 [`electrochemicalinstrument`](#electrochemicalinstrument)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: potentiometricsensor


[]{#redoxelectrode}

####  Redox Electrode


- Child of:
 [`electrochemicalinstrument`](#electrochemicalinstrument)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: redoxelectrode


[]{#electronopticalinstrument}

###  Electron-Optical Instrument


- Child of:
 [`analyticalinstrument`](#analyticalinstrument)

-

- **Source:**
Instrument general types

- Concept URI token: electronopticalinstrument


[]{#electronmicroprobe}

####  Electron Microprobe


- Child of:
 [`electronopticalinstrument`](#electronopticalinstrument)

- An electron microprobe is an electron microscope designed for the
non-destructive x-ray microanalysis and imaging of solid materials. It
is capable of high spatial resolution and relatively high analytical
sensitivity. [Source: Caltech]. . This is a general term for methods
using bombardment of a solid specimen by electrons which generate a
variety of signals providing the basis for a number of different
analytical techniques. (Source: IUPAC;
https://media.iupac.org/publications/analytical_compendium/)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: electronmicroprobe


[]{#scanningelectronmicroscope}

####  Scanning Electron Microscope


- Child of:
 [`electronopticalinstrument`](#electronopticalinstrument)

- By scanning an electron probe across a specimen, high resolution
images of the morphology or topography of a specimen, with great depth
of field, at very low or very high magnifications can be obtained.
Compositional analysis of a material may also be obtained by
monitoring secondary X-rays produced by the electron-specimen
interaction. Thus detailed maps of elemental distribution can be
produced from multi-phase materials or complex, bio-active materials.
Characterization of fine particulate matter in terms of size, shape,
and distribution as well as statistical analyses of these parameters,
may be performed.  (Source: NASA; UUID:
04e586f0-569b-467d-b9ca-b43bc6802f4b)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: scanningelectronmicroscope


[]{#transmissionelectronmicroscope}

####  Transmission Electron Microscope


- Child of:
 [`electronopticalinstrument`](#electronopticalinstrument)

- Instrument that projects a beam of electrons through a specimen to
form an image. The specimen is most often an ultrathin section less
than 100 nm thick or a suspension on a grid. An image is formed from
the interaction of the electrons with the sample as the beam is
transmitted through the specimen. Multiple operating modes based on
electron imaging include conventional imaging, scanning TEM imaging
(STEM), and electron diffraction. In STEM the electron beam is focused
to a fine spot (with the typical spot size 0.05 -- 0.2 nm) which is
then scanned over the sample in a raster illumination system
constructed so that the sample is illuminated at each point with the
beam parallel to the optical axis.
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transmission_electron_microscopy)
(Source: NASA; UUID: e5ab49d5-5f99-43d6-85bd-8db629f7bc7b)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: transmissionelectronmicroscope


[]{#elementalanalyzer}

###  Elemental Analyzer


- Child of:
 [`analyticalinstrument`](#analyticalinstrument)

-

- **Source:**
Instrument general types

- Concept URI token: elementalanalyzer


[]{#carbonanalyzer}

####  Carbon Analyzer


- Child of:
 [`elementalanalyzer`](#elementalanalyzer)

- A CARBON ANALYZER is an instrument that performs analyses on the
element of carbon and its many forms; studies all aspects of state,
behavior, formation, and composition. (Source: NASA; UUID:
b46bf990-c49d-4302-96ee-dce3c4f96d08)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: carbonanalyzer


[]{#totalorganiccarbonanalyzer}

#####  Total Organic Carbon Analyzer


- Child of:
 [`carbonanalyzer`](#carbonanalyzer)

- Total Organic Carbon (TOC) analysis is a well-defined and commonly
used methodology that measures the carbon content of dissolved and
particulate organic matter present in water.  E.g.
https://nepis.epa.gov/Exe/ZyPDF.cgi/P100KJHK.PDF?Dockey=P100KJHK.PDF
[Summary provided by the EPA] (Source: NASA; UUID:
58ac7544-7271-4957-a70a-ea7c1a1ae094)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: totalorganiccarbonanalyzer


[]{#magnetometer}

###  Magnetometer


- Child of:
 [`analyticalinstrument`](#analyticalinstrument)

- MAGNETOMETERS measure the Earth's magnetic field intensity. (Source:
NASA; UUID: deac2632-5c17-4d15-ae92-c61ebc5a405a).

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: magnetometer


[]{#materialpropertyinstrument}

###  Material property measurement instrument


- Child of:
 [`analyticalinstrument`](#analyticalinstrument)

-

- **Source:**
Instrument general types

- Concept URI token: materialpropertyinstrument


[]{#differentialscanningcalorimeter}

####  Differential Scanning Calorimeter


- Child of:
 [`materialpropertyinstrument`](#materialpropertyinstrument)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: differentialscanningcalorimeter


[]{#porosimeter}

####  Porosimeter


- Child of:
 [`materialpropertyinstrument`](#materialpropertyinstrument)

- Instrument that uses the intrusion of a non-wetting liquid (often
mercury) at high pressure into a material to determine pore size based
on the external pressure needed to force the liquid into a pore
against the opposing force of the liquid's surface tension.
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Porosimetry)

- **Source:**
DFG

- Concept URI token: porosimeter


[]{#soilheatfluxtransducer}

####  Soil Heat Flux Transducer


- Child of:
 [`materialpropertyinstrument`](#materialpropertyinstrument)

- Soil heat flux is commonly measured using a soil heat flux
transducer (plate.) The soil heat flux transducer should be made as
thin as possible and constructed of a material that does not absorb
water and has a thermal conductivity that does not impede heat flow.
A heat flow transducer (Model HFT-1) built by Micromet systems is
constructed of high thermal conductivity epoxy to prevent ground
potential pickup.  This instrument also has low resistance to heat
flow, requires no power input and has a linear calibration. Additional
information available at
'http://snrs.unl.edu/agmet/408/instruments/soilheat.html' [Summary
provided by University of Nebraska-Lincoln]. .

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: soilheatfluxtransducer


[]{#tensiometer}

####  Tensiometer


- Child of:
 [`materialpropertyinstrument`](#materialpropertyinstrument)

- A TENSIOMETER is an instrument used to measure the soil moisture
tension in the vadose zone and are used in irrigation scheduling to
help farmers and other irrigation managers to determine when to water.
(Source: USGS; https://apps.usgs.gov/thesaurus/thesaurus-
full.php?thcode=2)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: tensiometer


[]{#variablefieldtranslationbalance}

####  Variable Field Translation Balance


- Child of:
 [`materialpropertyinstrument`](#materialpropertyinstrument)

- The variable field translation balance (VFTB) is an instrument for
measuring isothermal magnetizations in variable fields (e.g.,
hysteresis loops) as well as the temperature dependence of the
associated magnetic parameters. It is specifically designed to measure
the weak magnetizations commonly encountered in rock magnetism.
(Source: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4020-4423-6_312).

- **Source:**
Own

- Concept URI token: variablefieldtranslationbalance


[]{#nuclearmagneticresonancespectrometer}

###  Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectrometer


- Child of:
 [`analyticalinstrument`](#analyticalinstrument)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: nuclearmagneticresonancespectrometer


[]{#opticalinstrument}

###  Optical instrument


- Child of:
 [`analyticalinstrument`](#analyticalinstrument)

-

- **Source:**
Instrument general types

- Concept URI token: opticalinstrument


[]{#binocular}

####  Binocular


- Child of:
 [`opticalinstrument`](#opticalinstrument)

- A pair of identical or mirror-symmetrical telescopes mounted side-
by-side and aligned to point accurately in the same direction,
allowing the viewer to use both eyes (binocular vision) when viewing
distant objects. Most are sized to be held using both hands, although
sizes vary widely from opera glasses to large pedestal mounted
military models.. .

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: binocular


[]{#microscope}

####  Microscope


- Child of:
 [`opticalinstrument`](#opticalinstrument)

- MICROSCOPES are instruments that magnify the image of small objects.
(Source: NASA; UUID: 99f640d4-6b01-4646-b4e2-315885e01bf4)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: microscope


[]{#confocallaserscanningmicroscope}

#####  Confocal Laser Scanning Microscope


- Child of:
 [`microscope`](#microscope)

- optical imaging instrument that increases  optical resolution and
contrast by means of a spatial pinhole to block out-of-focus light in
image formation. Capturing multiple two-dimensional images at
different depths in a sample enables the reconstruction of three-
dimensional structures (a process known as optical sectioning) within
an object. A confocal microscope focuses a small beam of light at one
narrow depth level at a time to achieve a controlled and highly
limited depth of field.  The point illumination and a pinhole in an
optically conjugate plane in front of the detector eliminate out-of-
focus signal -- the name 'confocal' stems from this configuration. As
only light from  very close to the focal plane can be detected, the
image's optical resolution, particularly in the sample depth
direction, is much better than that of wide-field microscopes. Much of
the light is blocked at the pinhole resulting in decreased signal
intensity, so long exposures are often required. To offset this drop
in signal after the pinhole, the light intensity is detected by a
sensitive detector, usually a photomultiplier tube (PMT) or avalanche
photodiode, transforming the light signal into an electrical one.  As
only one point in the sample is illuminated at a time, 2D or 3D
imaging requires scanning over a regular raster in the specimen.
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Confocal_microscopy)

- **Source:**
Own

- Concept URI token: confocallaserscanningmicroscope


[]{#fluorescencemicroscope}

#####  Fluorescence Microscope


- Child of:
 [`microscope`](#microscope)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: fluorescencemicroscope


[]{#photometer}

###  Photometer


- Child of:
 [`analyticalinstrument`](#analyticalinstrument)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: photometer


[]{#spectrometer}

###  Spectrometer


- Child of:
 [`analyticalinstrument`](#analyticalinstrument)

-

- **Source:**
Instrument general types

- Concept URI token: spectrometer


[]{#atomicabsorptionspectrometer}

####  Atomic Absorption Spectrometer


- Child of:
 [`spectrometer`](#spectrometer)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: atomicabsorptionspectrometer


[]{#fluorometer}

####  Fluorometer


- Child of:
 [`spectrometer`](#spectrometer)

- A fluorometer is an instrument that measures the amount of
fluorescent radiation produced by a sample exposed to monochromatic
radiation. Additional information available at
'http://gcmd.gsfc.nasa.gov/cgi-bin/createsensorsupweb' [Summary
provided by NOAA]. Own comment: For Bioanalytics a fluorometer is used
to measure quantity and quality of DNA.

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: fluorometer


[]{#massspectrometer}

####  Mass Spectrometer


- Child of:
 [`spectrometer`](#spectrometer)

- Study of matter through the formation of gas-phase ions that are
characterized using mass spectrometers by their mass, charge,
structure, and/or physico-chemical properties. (Source: IUPAC;
https://doi.org/10.1351/PAC-REC-06-04-06)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: massspectrometer


[]{#elementalanalyzerisotoperatiomassspectrometer}

#####  Elemental Analyzer Isotope Ratio Mass Spectrometer


- Child of:
 [`massspectrometer`](#massspectrometer)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: elementalanalyzerisotoperatiomassspectrometer


[]{#inductivelycoupledplasmamassspectrometer}

#####  Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometer


- Child of:
 [`massspectrometer`](#massspectrometer)

-
- Mass spectrometry technique based on coupling a mass spectrometer
with an inductively coupled plasma as an ion source that both atomizes
samples into their constituent atoms and ionizes them to form atomic
cations. The technique is highly sensitive for a range of metals and
several non-metals, and provides information on isotopic
distributions. (Source: IUPAC; https://doi.org/10.1351/PAC-
REC-06-04-06)[Summary provided by CEMS].  Newly developed Time of
Flight instrumentation is augmenting more traditional quadruple and
magnetic sector based instrumentation. Laser ablation, graphite
furnace, liquid and gas chromatographic interfacing has facilitated
the analysis of a significantly increased variety of sample types,
enabling the determination of up to sixty elements in samples as small
as 10 micro-meters in diameter and improved the resolution and
detection limits of organo-metallic species analysis in such matrices
as foodstuffs, water, sediment and environmental samples. Additional
information available at
http://www.curtin.edu.au/curtin/centre/cems/icp_ms.html

- **Source:**
Instrument general types, 
NASA, 

- Concept URI token: inductivelycoupledplasmamassspectrometer


[]{#multicollectorinductivelycoupledplasmamassspectrometer}

######  Multicollector Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometer


- Child of:
 [`inductivelycoupledplasmamassspectrometer`](#inductivelycoupledplasmamassspectrometer)

- The Multicollector Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry
(MCICPMS) spectrometer is a double focusing instrument that provides
high precision and accurate isotope ratio determinations, coupled with
flexibility and ease of use. [Source: University of Alberta.].  Mass
spectrograph based on a double-focusing magnetic analyzer that
spatially disperses ions of different m/z values on to an array of
Faraday cup detectors, generally used with inductively coupled plasma
ion sources for isotopic composition measurements. (Source: IUPAC;
https://doi.org/10.1351/PAC-REC-06-04-06)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: multicollectorinductivelycoupledplasmamassspectrometer


[]{#secondaryionmassspectrometer}

#####  Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometer


- Child of:
 [`massspectrometer`](#massspectrometer)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: secondaryionmassspectrometer


[]{#ramanspectrometer}

####  Raman Spectrometer


- Child of:
 [`spectrometer`](#spectrometer)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: ramanspectrometer


[]{#spectrofluorometer}

####  Spectrofluorometer


- Child of:
 [`spectrometer`](#spectrometer)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: spectrofluorometer


[]{#spectrophotometer}

####  Spectrophotometer


- Child of:
 [`spectrometer`](#spectrometer)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: spectrophotometer


[]{#spectroradiometer}

####  Spectroradiometer


- Child of:
 [`spectrometer`](#spectrometer)

- A spectroradiometer is an instrument for measuring the energy
distribution of emitted radiation. Portable spectroradiometers provide
field measurements for a variety of applications including geological
remote sensing, ground truthing, spectral remote sensing,
environmental and climate research, crop and soil research, vegetative
studies, forestry and canopy studies, radiometric calibration
transfer, upwelling and downwelling measurement.. . SPECTRORADIOMETERS
are a combination of a spectroscope and a radiometer in one single
unit. (Source: NASA; UUID: 937585ae-67a1-44a5-b88a-612667d353ea). A
radiometer is a device for measuring the radiant flux (power) of
electromagnetic radiation. (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radiometer).
The Spectrometer is the base unit of a Spectroradiometer.
Spectroradiometers include input optics and calibrations that allow
the spectrometer to take calibrated readings of power, intensity, and
irradiance/radiance in optical units or lux/nm, lumens/nm, watts/nm,
W/cm2/sr/nm etc.  Though to be clear, many people interchange the
terms calibrated spectrometer, spectrometer and spectroradiometer.
(https://www.intl-lighttech.com/blog/what-difference-between-
spectrometer-spectroradiometer-and-radiometer)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: spectroradiometer


[]{#xrayfluorescencespectrometer}

####  X-Ray Fluorescence Spectrometer


- Child of:
 [`spectrometer`](#spectrometer)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: xrayfluorescencespectrometer


[]{#microxrayfluorescencespectrometer}

#####  Micro-X-Ray Fluorescence Spectrometer


- Child of:
 [`xrayfluorescencespectrometer`](#xrayfluorescencespectrometer)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: microxrayfluorescencespectrometer


[]{#xraydiffractometer}

###  X-Ray Diffractometer


- Child of:
 [`analyticalinstrument`](#analyticalinstrument)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: xraydiffractometer


[]{#singlecrystalxraydiffractometer}

####  Single Crystal X-Ray Diffractometer


- Child of:
 [`xraydiffractometer`](#xraydiffractometer)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: singlecrystalxraydiffractometer


[]{#xraypowderdiffractometer}

####  X-Ray Powder Diffractometer


- Child of:
 [`xraydiffractometer`](#xraydiffractometer)

-

- **Source:**
method instruments

- Concept URI token: xraypowderdiffractometer



---
comment: | 
  WARNING: This file is generated. Any edits will be lost!
execute:
  echo: false
---

[]{#Analyticalmethodsforgeochemistry}

# **Concept scheme:** Analytical methods for geochemistry

Vocabulary last modified:  2023-02-09

subtitle: 
  This concept scheme contains skos concepts for analysis methods used to characterize geologic samples and some related methods.

Namespace: 
[`http://w3id.org/def/geochem/analyticaltechnique/method`](http://w3id.org/def/geochem/analyticaltechnique/method)

**History**


- [Analytical Method](#analyticalmethod)
    - [Bioanalytical Method](#bioanalyticalmethod)
        - [DNA Sequencing](#dnasequencing)
        - [Flow Cytometry](#flowcytometry)
        - [Fluorescent In Situ Hybridization](#fluorescentinsituhybridization)
        - [Hybridization Assay](#hybridizationassay)
        - [Next Generation Sequencing](#nextgenerationsequencing)
        - [Quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction](#quantitativepolymerasechainreaction)
        - [Sanger Sequencing](#sangersequencing)
        - [Shotgun Method](#shotgunmethod)
    - [Methods using chromatography](#chromatography)
        - [Methods using gas chromatography](#gaschromatography)
            - [Gas Chromatography Flame Ionization Detection](#gaschromatographyflameionizationdetection)
            - [Gas Chromatography Thermal Conductivity Detection](#gaschromatographythermalconductivitydetection)
            - [Pyrolysis Gas Chromatography Flame Ionization Detection](#pyrolysisgaschromatographyflameionizationdetection)
        - [Methods using liquid chromatography](#liquidchromatography)
            - [High Performance Liquid Chromatography](#highperformanceliquidchromatography)
            - [Ion Chromatography](#ionchromatography)
            - [Liquid Chromatography Organic Carbon Detection](#liquidchromatographyorganiccarbondetection)
    - [Electrochemical Techniques](#electrochemicaltechniques)
        - [Amperometry](#amperometry)
        - [Electrical Conductivity Measurement](#electricalconductivitymeasurement)
        - [pH Measurement](#phmeasurement)
        - [Potentiometry](#potentiometry)
        - [Redox Potential Measurement](#redoxpotentialmeasurement)
    - [Electron Diffraction](#electrondiffraction)
        - [Electron Backscatter Diffraction](#electronbackscatterdiffraction)
    - [Magnetic Field Measurement ](#magneticfieldmeasurement)
    - [Microscopy](#microscopy)
    - [Photometry](#photometry)
    - [Physical property measurement techniques](#physicalpropertytechniques)
        - [Porosimetry](#porosimetry)
        - [Tensiometry](#tensiometry)
        - [Thermal Analysis](#thermalanalysis)
            - [Differential Scanning Calorimetry](#differentialscanningcalorimetry)
    - [Quantitatve chemical analysis](#quantitatvechemicalanalysis)
        - [Total Organic Carbon Analysis](#totalorganiccarbonanalysis)
    - [Spectrometry](#spectrometry)
        - [Mass Spectrometry](#massspectrometry)
            - [Elemental Analyzer Isotope Ratio Mass Spectrometry](#elementalanalyzerisotoperatiomassspectrometry)
            - [Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometry](#gaschromatographymassspectrometry)
                - [Pyrolysis Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometry](#pyrolysisgaschromatographymassspectrometry)
            - [Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometry](#secondaryionmassspectrometry)
        - [Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy](#nuclearmagneticresonancespectroscopy)
        - [Photon spectrometry](#photonspectrometry)
            - [Fluorescence Spectroscopy](#fluorescencespectroscopy)
                - [Fluorescence Microscopy](#fluorescencemicroscopy)
                - [X-Ray Fluorescence Spectroscopy](#xrayfluorescencespectroscopy)
                    - [Micro-X-Ray Fluorescence Spectroscopy](#microxrayfluorescencespectroscopy)
            - [Optical spectrometry](#opticalspectrometry)
                - [Atomic Absorption Spectroscopy](#atomicabsorptionspectroscopy)
            - [Spectrophotometry](#spectrophotometry)
        - [Raman Spectroscopy](#ramanspectroscopy)
    - [X-Ray Diffraction](#xraydiffraction)
        - [Single Crystal X-Ray Diffraction](#singlecrystalxraydiffraction)
        - [X-Ray Powder Diffraction](#xraypowderdiffraction)

**Concepts**

[]{#analyticalmethod}

##  Analytical Method


- top concept for methods

- **Source:**
add parent

- Concept URI token: analyticalmethod


[]{#bioanalyticalmethod}

###  Bioanalytical Method


- Child of:
 [`analyticalmethod`](#analyticalmethod)

-

- **Source:**
add parent methods

- Concept URI token: bioanalyticalmethod


[]{#dnasequencing}

####  DNA Sequencing


- Child of:
 [`bioanalyticalmethod`](#bioanalyticalmethod)

- Determination of nucleotide sequence (the DNA primary structure).
(Source: IUPAC; https://doi.org/10.1515/iupac.90.0262)

- **Source:**
IUPAC

- Concept URI token: dnasequencing


[]{#flowcytometry}

####  Flow Cytometry


- Child of:
 [`bioanalyticalmethod`](#bioanalyticalmethod)

- Laboratory technique to determine the amount of DNA in cells tagged
by fluorescent dye by measuring the intensity of fluorescence under a
laser beam. (Source: USGS; https://apps.usgs.gov/thesaurus/thesaurus-
full.php?thcode=2)

- **Source:**
USGS

- Concept URI token: flowcytometry


[]{#fluorescentinsituhybridization}

####  Fluorescent In Situ Hybridization


- Child of:
 [`bioanalyticalmethod`](#bioanalyticalmethod)

- Cytogenetic technique used to detect and localize the presence or
absence of specific DNA sequences on chromosomes. It uses fluorescent
probes that only bind to those parts of the chromosome with which they
show a high degree of sequence complementarity. Note: FISH is often
used for finding specific features in DNA for use in genetic
counselling, medicine, and species identification. FISH can also be
used to detect and localize specific RNA targets (mRNA, lncRNA and
miRNA) in cells, circulating tumor cells, and tissue samples. In this
context, it can help define the spatial-temporal patterns of gene
expression within cells and tissues. (Source: IUPAC;
https://doi.org/10.1515/iupac.90.0262)

- **Source:**
IUPAC

- Concept URI token: fluorescentinsituhybridization


[]{#hybridizationassay}

####  Hybridization Assay


- Child of:
 [`bioanalyticalmethod`](#bioanalyticalmethod)

- Assay with specifically designed single-stranded DNA probe with a
defined (known) nucleotide sequence usually immobilized on a surface
(in such a case, the nucleic acid probe is called the capture probe).
Note: The probe is used as a recognition element to test for the
nucleotide sequence within the target DNA in the sample solution. If
target DNA contains a sequence complementary to the probe, a hybrid
dsDNA is formed. (Source: IUPAC;
https://doi.org/10.1515/iupac.90.0262).  A type of Ligand Binding
Assay (LBA) used to quantify nucleic acids in biological matrices.
Hybridization assays can be in solution or on a solid support such as
96-well plates or labelled beads.  Hybridization assays involve
labelled nucleic acid probes to identify related DNA or RNA molecules
(i.e. with significantly high degree of sequence similarity) within a
complex mixture of unlabelled nucleic acid molecules.
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hybridization_assay)

- **Source:**
IUPAC

- Concept URI token: hybridizationassay


[]{#nextgenerationsequencing}

####  Next Generation Sequencing


- Child of:
 [`bioanalyticalmethod`](#bioanalyticalmethod)

- Determination of nucleotide sequence (the DNA primary structure)
using non-Sanger-based high-throughput DNA sequencing technologies
where millions of DNA strands can be sequenced in parallel. (Source:
IUPAC; https://doi.org/10.1515/iupac.90.0262)

- **Source:**
IUPAC

- Concept URI token: nextgenerationsequencing


[]{#quantitativepolymerasechainreaction}

####  Quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction


- Child of:
 [`bioanalyticalmethod`](#bioanalyticalmethod)

- Polymerase chain reaction to quantify target nucleotide sequences of
interest. (Source: IUPAC; https://doi.org/10.1515/iupac.90.0262).
Quantitative PCR adds two elements to the standard Polymerase Chain
Reaction (PCR) process: 1)Fluorescent dye and 2) Fluorometer. These
two elements turn qPCR to a measurement technique in its own right.
The fluorometer detects  fluorescence in real time as the thermal
cycler runs, giving readings throughout the amplification process of
the PCR.  As a result, quantitative PCR is also called real-time PCR
or RT-PCR. (https://www.thermofisher.com/blog/ask-a-scientist/what-is-
qpcr/)

- **Source:**
IUPAC

- Concept URI token: quantitativepolymerasechainreaction


[]{#sangersequencing}

####  Sanger Sequencing


- Child of:
 [`bioanalyticalmethod`](#bioanalyticalmethod)

- Method for determining nucleotide sequence of DNA based on
incorporating chain-terminating dideoxynucleotides. Note: The method
is named after Frederick Sanger (1918--2013, awarded the Nobel Prize
in 1958 and 1980). (Source: IUPAC;
https://doi.org/10.1515/iupac.90.0262)

- **Source:**
IUPAC

- Concept URI token: sangersequencing


[]{#shotgunmethod}

####  Shotgun Method


- Child of:
 [`bioanalyticalmethod`](#bioanalyticalmethod)

- Method used for determining the order of bases in long DNA using
sequencing of DNA broken up randomly into numerous small segments.
(Source: IUPAC; https://doi.org/10.1515/iupac.90.0262)

- **Source:**
IUPAC

- Concept URI token: shotgunmethod


[]{#chromatography}

###  Methods using chromatography


- Child of:
 [`analyticalmethod`](#analyticalmethod)

-

- **Source:**
add parent methods

- Concept URI token: chromatography


[]{#gaschromatography}

####  Methods using gas chromatography


- Child of:
 [`chromatography`](#chromatography)

-

- **Source:**
add parent methods

- Concept URI token: gaschromatography


[]{#gaschromatographyflameionizationdetection}

#####  Gas Chromatography Flame Ionization Detection


- Child of:
 [`gaschromatography`](#gaschromatography)

- A gas chromatography method that uses a flame ionization detector
(FID) to measure the concentration of organic species in a gas stream
emerging from the column. An FID typically uses a Hydrogen/Air flame
into which the sample is passed to oxidize organic molecules and
produces electrically charged particles (ions). The ions are collected
and produce an electrical signal which is then measured. (Source:
IUPAC; https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2017-0111)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: gaschromatographyflameionizationdetection


[]{#gaschromatographythermalconductivitydetection}

#####  Gas Chromatography Thermal Conductivity Detection


- Child of:
 [`gaschromatography`](#gaschromatography)

- A gas chromatography method that uses a Thermal Conductivity
Detector  to analyze inorganic gases (Argon, Nitrogen, Hydrogen,
Carbon Dioxide, etc.) and small hydrocarbon molecules emerging from
the chromatography column. The TCD compares the thermal conductivity
of two gas flows - the pure carrier (reference) gas and the sample.
Changes in the temperature of the electrically-heated wires in the
detector are affected by the thermal conductivity of the gas which
flows around this. The changes in this thermal conductivity are sensed
as a change in electrical resistance and are measured.  (Source: NASA;
UUID: f54fd6d0-9705-4f45-8c78-7eaba058b1b6)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: gaschromatographythermalconductivitydetection


[]{#pyrolysisgaschromatographyflameionizationdetection}

#####  Pyrolysis Gas Chromatography Flame Ionization Detection


- Child of:
 [`gaschromatography`](#gaschromatography)

- Pyrolysis Gas Chromatography that uses a flame ionization detector
(FID) to measure the concentration of organic species in a gas stream
emerging from the column. An FID typically uses a Hydrogen/Air flame
into which the sample is passed to oxidize organic molecules and
produces electrically charged particles (ions). The ions are collected
and produce an electrical signal which is then measured. (Source:
IUPAC; https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2017-0111)

- **Source:**
Own

- Concept URI token: pyrolysisgaschromatographyflameionizationdetection


[]{#liquidchromatography}

####  Methods using liquid chromatography


- Child of:
 [`chromatography`](#chromatography)

-

- **Source:**
add parent methods

- Concept URI token: liquidchromatography


[]{#highperformanceliquidchromatography}

#####  High Performance Liquid Chromatography


- Child of:
 [`liquidchromatography`](#liquidchromatography)

- Chromatography in which the mobile phase is a liquid. Note 2: Liquid
column chromatography utilizing small particles (2--20 micron) and a
relatively high inlet pressure (up to 50 MPa (500 bar)) is often
characterized by the term high-performance liquid chromatography  and
the acronym HPLC. (Source: IUPAC;
https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2017-0111)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: highperformanceliquidchromatography


[]{#ionchromatography}

#####  Ion Chromatography


- Child of:
 [`liquidchromatography`](#liquidchromatography)

- liquid chromatography using conductivity detectors where a
combination of weak ionic solvents are used to separate anions and
cations of a solution, with the contribution of the solvent to
conductivity suppressed just prior to detection; measures anions such
as sulfate, nitrate, and chloride in hydrometers. Chromatography in
which separation is based mainly on differences in the ion-exchange
affinities of the sample components. (Source: IUPAC;
https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2017-0111)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: ionchromatography


[]{#liquidchromatographyorganiccarbondetection}

#####  Liquid Chromatography Organic Carbon Detection


- Child of:
 [`liquidchromatography`](#liquidchromatography)

- Liquid chromatography -- organic carbon detection (LC-OCD) is an
analytical technique for identification and quantification of natural
organic matter (NOM) constituents in aquatic environments and water-
soluble synthetic organic matter in water.

- **Source:**
Own

- Concept URI token: liquidchromatographyorganiccarbondetection


[]{#electrochemicaltechniques}

###  Electrochemical Techniques


- Child of:
 [`analyticalmethod`](#analyticalmethod)

-

- **Source:**
add parent methods

- Concept URI token: electrochemicaltechniques


[]{#amperometry}

####  Amperometry


- Child of:
 [`electrochemicaltechniques`](#electrochemicaltechniques)

- Technique based on measurement of current at a controlled applied
potential. Application: monitoring of carbon monoxide in air,
dissolved oxygen in water (Clark electrode), glucose in blood (glucose
electrode). (Source: IUPAC;  https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2018-0109).

- **Source:**
IUPAC

- Concept URI token: amperometry


[]{#electricalconductivitymeasurement}

####  Electrical Conductivity Measurement


- Child of:
 [`electrochemicaltechniques`](#electrochemicaltechniques)

-

- **Source:**
add instrument related methods

- Concept URI token: electricalconductivitymeasurement


[]{#phmeasurement}

####  pH Measurement


- Child of:
 [`electrochemicaltechniques`](#electrochemicaltechniques)

-

- **Source:**
add instrument related methods

- Concept URI token: phmeasurement


[]{#potentiometry}

####  Potentiometry


- Child of:
 [`electrochemicaltechniques`](#electrochemicaltechniques)

- Technique in which the potential difference between an indicator
electrode and a reference electrode is measured. Application: gas-
sensing electrodes (e.g., for CO2, NH3, NOx), determination of oxygen
in the gas phase (lambda probe) or ions in water solutions (pH
sensitive electrodes, ion-sensitive electrodes). (Source: IUPAC;
https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2018-0109).

- **Source:**
IUPAC

- Concept URI token: potentiometry


[]{#redoxpotentialmeasurement}

####  Redox Potential Measurement


- Child of:
 [`electrochemicaltechniques`](#electrochemicaltechniques)

- Redox potential is an electrical measurement that shows the tendency
of a solution to transfer electrons to or from a reference electrode.
From this measurement we can estimate whether the sample is aerobic,
anaerobic, and whether chemical compounds such as Fe oxides or nitrate
have been chemically reduced or are present in their oxidized forms.
The redox potential is used to describe a system's overall reducing or
oxidizing capacity. The redox potential is measured in millivolts (mV)
relative to a standard hydrogen electrode and is commonly measured
using a platinum electrode with a saturated calomel electrode as
reference.

- **Source:**
DFG

- Concept URI token: redoxpotentialmeasurement


[]{#electrondiffraction}

###  Electron Diffraction


- Child of:
 [`analyticalmethod`](#analyticalmethod)

-

- **Source:**
add parent methods

- Concept URI token: electrondiffraction


[]{#electronbackscatterdiffraction}

####  Electron Backscatter Diffraction


- Child of:
 [`electrondiffraction`](#electrondiffraction)

-  a flat/polished crystalline specimen is placed in the SEM chamber
at a highly tilted angle (~70degree from horizontal) towards the
diffraction camera, to increase the contrast in the resultant electron
backscatter diffraction pattern. The phosphor screen is located within
the specimen chamber of the SEM at an angle of approximately 90degree
to the pole piece and is coupled to a compact lens which focuses the
image from the phosphor screen onto the CCD camera. In this
configuration, some of the electrons which enter the sample
backscatter and may escape. As these electrons leave the sample, they
may exit at the Bragg condition related to the spacing of the periodic
atomic lattice planes of the crystalline structure and diffract. These
diffracted electrons can escape the material and some will collide and
excite the phosphor causing it to fluoresce.

- **Source:**
DFG

- Concept URI token: electronbackscatterdiffraction


[]{#magneticfieldmeasurement}

###  Magnetic Field Measurement


- Child of:
 [`analyticalmethod`](#analyticalmethod)

-

- **Source:**
add instrument related methods

- Concept URI token: magneticfieldmeasurement


[]{#microscopy}

###  Microscopy


- Child of:
 [`analyticalmethod`](#analyticalmethod)

-

- **Source:**
add instrument related methods

- Concept URI token: microscopy


[]{#photometry}

###  Photometry


- Child of:
 [`analyticalmethod`](#analyticalmethod)

- measurement of the luminance, luminous intensity, or luminance of a
light source;  with an output weighted by the wavelength response of
the human eye. (Source: NASA; UUID;
806d0bc3-8d08-4418-800b-972292f3db99)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: photometry


[]{#physicalpropertytechniques}

###  Physical property measurement techniques


- Child of:
 [`analyticalmethod`](#analyticalmethod)

-

- **Source:**
add general method categories

- Concept URI token: physicalpropertytechniques


[]{#porosimetry}

####  Porosimetry


- Child of:
 [`physicalpropertytechniques`](#physicalpropertytechniques)

- Porosimetry is an analytical technique used to determine various
quantifiable aspects of a material's porous structure, such as pore
diameter, total pore volume, surface area, and bulk and absolute
densities. (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Porosimetry)

- **Source:**
add instrument related methods

- Concept URI token: porosimetry


[]{#tensiometry}

####  Tensiometry


- Child of:
 [`physicalpropertytechniques`](#physicalpropertytechniques)

- measurement of soil moisture tension in the vadose zone, typically
using a tensiometer.

- **Source:**
add instrument related methods

- Concept URI token: tensiometry


[]{#thermalanalysis}

####  Thermal Analysis


- Child of:
 [`physicalpropertytechniques`](#physicalpropertytechniques)

-

- **Source:**
add parent methods

- Concept URI token: thermalanalysis


[]{#differentialscanningcalorimetry}

#####  Differential Scanning Calorimetry


- Child of:
 [`thermalanalysis`](#thermalanalysis)

- Technique where either 1) the difference between heat flow rates
into a sample and a reference material is measured (heat-flow DSC) or
2) the difference between the electrical powers into a sample and a
reference material is measured (power compensation DSC). (Source:
IUPAC; https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2012-0609).

- **Source:**
DFG

- Concept URI token: differentialscanningcalorimetry


[]{#quantitatvechemicalanalysis}

###  Quantitatve chemical analysis


- Child of:
 [`analyticalmethod`](#analyticalmethod)

-

- **Source:**
add general method categories

- Concept URI token: quantitatvechemicalanalysis


[]{#totalorganiccarbonanalysis}

####  Total Organic Carbon Analysis


- Child of:
 [`quantitatvechemicalanalysis`](#quantitatvechemicalanalysis)

-

- **Source:**
add instrument related methods

- Concept URI token: totalorganiccarbonanalysis


[]{#spectrometry}

###  Spectrometry


- Child of:
 [`analyticalmethod`](#analyticalmethod)

-

- **Source:**
add parent methods

- Concept URI token: spectrometry


[]{#massspectrometry}

####  Mass Spectrometry


- Child of:
 [`spectrometry`](#spectrometry)

-

- **Source:**
add parent methods

- Concept URI token: massspectrometry


[]{#elementalanalyzerisotoperatiomassspectrometry}

#####  Elemental Analyzer Isotope Ratio Mass Spectrometry


- Child of:
 [`massspectrometry`](#massspectrometry)

- Measurement and study of the relative abundances of the different
isotopes of an element in a material using a mass spectrometer which
is coupled with an elemental analyzer. (Source: IUPAC;
https://doi.org/10.1351/PAC-REC-06-04-06).

- **Source:**
Earth Chem

- Concept URI token: elementalanalyzerisotoperatiomassspectrometry


[]{#gaschromatographymassspectrometry}

#####  Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometry


- Child of:
 [`massspectrometry`](#massspectrometry)

- Technique by which a mixture is separated into individual components
by gas chromatography, followed by detection with a mass spectrometer.
(Source: IUPAC; https://doi.org/10.1351/PAC-REC-06-04-06)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: gaschromatographymassspectrometry


[]{#pyrolysisgaschromatographymassspectrometry}

######  Pyrolysis Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometry


- Child of:
 [`gaschromatographymassspectrometry`](#gaschromatographymassspectrometry)

- Mass spectrometry technique in which the sample is heated to the
point of decomposition and the gas phase decomposition products are
characterized by mass spectrometry. (Source: IUPAC;
https://doi.org/10.1351/PAC-REC-06-04-06).

- **Source:**
IUPAC

- Concept URI token: pyrolysisgaschromatographymassspectrometry


[]{#secondaryionmassspectrometry}

#####  Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometry


- Child of:
 [`massspectrometry`](#massspectrometry)

- Measure method in which a focused beam of primary ions produces
secondary ions by sputtering from a solid surface. The secondary ions
are analyzed by mass spectrometry. (Source: IUPAC;
https://doi.org/10.1351/PAC-REC-06-04-06)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: secondaryionmassspectrometry


[]{#nuclearmagneticresonancespectroscopy}

####  Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy


- Child of:
 [`spectrometry`](#spectrometry)

- Measurement principle of spectroscopy to measure the precession of
magnetic moments placed in a magnetic induction based on absorption of
electromagnetic radiation of a specific frequency by an atomic
nucleus. Nuclei having a suitable magnetic moment include
<sup>1</sup>H, <sup>13</sup>C, <sup>15</sup>N, <sup>19</sup>F,
<sup>31</sup>P. The technique is used as a method of determining
structure of organic molecules, or as a mechanism for quantification.
(Source: IUPAC; https://iupac.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/PAC-
REC-19-02-03.R2_PR191002MC.pdf). A spectroscopic technique that
observes the signal produced by nuclear magnetic resonance of the
atomic nuclei in a sample when exposed to excitation by radio waves.
The signal is related to local magnetic fields around atomic nuclei.
The intramolecular magnetic field around an atom in a molecule changes
the resonance frequency, thus giving access to details of the
electronic structure of a molecule and its individual functional
groups. The electromagnetic waves emitted by the nuclei of the sample
as a result of perturbation by a weak oscillating magnetic field are
detected with sensitive radio receivers. Upon excitation of the sample
with a radio frequency (60--1000 MHz) pulse, a nuclear magnetic
resonance response - a free induction decay (FID) - is obtained. It is
a very weak signal, and requires sensitive radio receivers to pick up.
A Fourier transform is carried out to extract the frequency-domain
spectrum from the raw time-domain FID. As the fields are unique or
highly characteristic to individual compounds NMR spectroscopy is the
definitive method to identify monomolecular organic compounds.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuclear_magnetic_resonance_spectroscopy

- **Source:**
DFG

- Concept URI token: nuclearmagneticresonancespectroscopy


[]{#photonspectrometry}

####  Photon spectrometry


- Child of:
 [`spectrometry`](#spectrometry)

-

- **Source:**
add parent methods

- Concept URI token: photonspectrometry


[]{#fluorescencespectroscopy}

#####  Fluorescence Spectroscopy


- Child of:
 [`photonspectrometry`](#photonspectrometry)

- measurement the [energy, power?] of fluorescent radiation produced
by a sample exposed to monochromatic radiation, used to identify the
presence and the amount of specific molecules in a sample
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fluorometer).  A type of
electromagnetic spectroscopy that analyzes fluorescence from a sample.
It involves using a beam of light, usually ultraviolet light, that
excites the electrons in molecules of certain compounds and causes
them to emit light; typically, but not necessarily, visible light
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fluorescence_spectroscopy)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: fluorescencespectroscopy


[]{#fluorescencemicroscopy}

######  Fluorescence Microscopy


- Child of:
 [`fluorescencespectroscopy`](#fluorescencespectroscopy)

- Fluorescence microscopy is capable of imaging the distribution of a
single molecular species based solely on the properties of
fluorescence emission. Thus, using fluorescence microscopy, the
precise location of intracellular components labeled with specific
fluorophores can be monitored, as well as their associated diffusion
coefficients, transport characteristics, and interactions with other
biomolecules. In addition, the dramatic response in fluorescence to
localized environmental variables enables the investigation of pH,
viscosity, refractive index, ionic concentrations, membrane potential,
and solvent polarity in living cells and tissues. Fluorescence is the
property of some atoms and molecules to absorb light at a particular
wavelength and to subsequently emit light of longer wavelength after a
brief interval, termed the fluorescence lifetime.  http://micro.magnet
.fsu.edu/primer/techniques/fluorescence/fluorhome.html

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: fluorescencemicroscopy


[]{#xrayfluorescencespectroscopy}

######  X-Ray Fluorescence Spectroscopy


- Child of:
 [`fluorescencespectroscopy`](#fluorescencespectroscopy)

- Primary X-Rays are used to excite (fluoresce) X-rays in the
specimen. A fused disc or pressed pellet is used for the determination
of major element concentrations or trace element abundances in a bulk
specimen. The X-ray detector utilizes a set of diffracting crystals
specially positioned to detect one characteristic X-ray at-a-time.
This sequential measurement of X-rays is termed Wavelength Dispersive
Spectroscopy (WDS). Additional information available at
'http://www.nmnh.si.edu/minsci/labs/xrf.htm'. Measurement method of
X-ray fluorescence used to measure amounts of elements in a material.
(Source: IUPAC; https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2019-0302)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: xrayfluorescencespectroscopy


[]{#microxrayfluorescencespectroscopy}

#######  Micro-X-Ray Fluorescence Spectroscopy


- Child of:
 [`xrayfluorescencespectroscopy`](#xrayfluorescencespectroscopy)

- Measurement method of X-ray fluorescence used to measure amounts of
elements in a material. Micro-XRF analysis uses highly brilliant X-ray
sources (synchrotron source and spot size 100 nm to 2 micron) and
microfocussing X-ray optics to give femtogram to attogram detection
limits. (Source: IUPAC; https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2019-0302).

- **Source:**
Own

- Concept URI token: microxrayfluorescencespectroscopy


[]{#opticalspectrometry}

#####  Optical spectrometry


- Child of:
 [`photonspectrometry`](#photonspectrometry)

-

- **Source:**
add parent

- Concept URI token: opticalspectrometry


[]{#atomicabsorptionspectroscopy}

######  Atomic Absorption Spectroscopy


- Child of:
 [`opticalspectrometry`](#opticalspectrometry)

- analytical technique used to measure a wide range of elements in
materials such as metals, pottery and glass. Although it is a
destructive technique (unlike ED-XRF), the sample size needed is very
small (typically about 10 milligrams - i.e. one hundredth of a gram)
and its removal causes little damage. The sample is accurately weighed
and then dissolved, often using strong acids. The resulting solution
is sprayed into the flame of the instrument and atomized. Light of a
suitable wavelength for a particular element is shone through the
flame, and some of this light is absorbed by the atoms of the sample.
The amount of light absorbed is proportional to the concentration of
the element in the solution, and hence in the original object.
Measurements are made separately for each element of interest in turn
to achieve a complete analysis of an object, and thus the technique is
relatively slow to use. However, it is very sensitive and it can
measure trace elements down to the part per million level, as well as
being able to measure elements present in minor and major amounts.
Additional information available at
http://www.thebritishmuseum.ac.uk/science/text/techniques/sr-tech-
aas-t.html,  https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2017-0410

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: atomicabsorptionspectroscopy


[]{#spectrophotometry}

#####  Spectrophotometry


- Child of:
 [`photonspectrometry`](#photonspectrometry)

- measurement of the intensity of electromagnetic radiation as a
function of frequency (or wavelength) of the radiation; radiation
enters the meter through a slit and is dispersed by means of a prism.
(Source: NASA; UUID: 3f7c8cc2-e3c3-4dfd-a17f-9d480f1f7179)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: spectrophotometry


[]{#ramanspectroscopy}

####  Raman Spectroscopy


- Child of:
 [`spectrometry`](#spectrometry)

- Measurement principle of molecular spectroscopy based on Raman
scattering. (Source: IUAPC; https://iupac.org/wp-
content/uploads/2019/10/PAC-REC-19-02-03.R2_PR191002MC.pdf).

- **Source:**
DFG

- Concept URI token: ramanspectroscopy


[]{#xraydiffraction}

###  X-Ray Diffraction


- Child of:
 [`analyticalmethod`](#analyticalmethod)

- Measurement method using diffraction of X-radiation to obtain the
spatial arrangement of atoms in a crystalline sample. X-ray
diffraction is based on constructive interference of monochromatic
X-rays and a crystalline sample. These X-rays are generated by a
cathode ray tube, filtered to produce monochromatic radiation,
collimated to concentrate, and directed toward the sample. The
interaction of the incident rays with the sample produces constructive
interference (and a diffracted ray) when conditions satisfy Bragg's
Law (n*'lambda'=2*d*sin*(theta)). This law relates the wavelength of
electromagnetic radiation to the diffraction angle and the lattice
spacing in a crystalline sample. These diffracted X-rays are then
detected, processed and counted. By changing the geometry of the
incident rays, the sample, and the detector, all possible diffraction
directions of the lattice should be attained.(https://serc.carleton.ed
u/research_education/geochemsheets/techniques/XRD.html) Copper K-a
radiation (l = 0.15406 nm, E = 8.04 keV) is typically used for routine
XRD. (Source: IUPAC; https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2019-0302)

- **Source:**
IUPAC

- Concept URI token: xraydiffraction


[]{#singlecrystalxraydiffraction}

####  Single Crystal X-Ray Diffraction


- Child of:
 [`xraydiffraction`](#xraydiffraction)

- Single-crystal X-ray Diffraction is a non-destructive analytical
technique which provides detailed information about the internal
lattice of crystalline substances, including unit cell dimensions,
bond-lengths, bond-angles, and details of site-ordering. X-ray
diffraction is based on constructive interference of monochromatic
X-rays and a crystalline sample. These X-rays are generated by a
cathode ray tube, filtered to produce monochromatic radiation,
collimated to concentrate, and directed toward the sample. The
interaction of the incident rays with the sample produces constructive
interference (and a diffracted ray) when conditions satisfy Bragg's
Law (n*'lambda'=2*d*sin(theta). This law relates the wavelength of
electromagnetic radiation to the diffraction angle and the lattice
spacing in a crystalline sample. These diffracted X-rays are then
detected, processed and counted. By changing the geometry of the
incident rays, the orientation of the centered crystal and the
detector, all possible diffraction directions of the lattice should be
attained. Single-crystal diffractometers use either 3- or 4-circle
goniometers. These circles refer to the four angles (2*theta, 'chi',
'phi', and 'omega') that define the relationship between the crystal
lattice, the incident ray and detector. Samples are mounted on thin
glass fibers which are attached to brass pins and mounted onto
goniometer heads. Adjustment of the X, Y and Z orthogonal directions
allows centering of the crystal within the X-ray beam. Single-crystal
X-ray diffraction is most commonly used for precise determination of a
unit cell, including cell dimensions and positions of atoms within the
lattice. (https://serc.carleton.edu/research_education/geochemsheets/t
echniques/SXD.html)

- **Source:**
DFG

- Concept URI token: singlecrystalxraydiffraction


[]{#xraypowderdiffraction}

####  X-Ray Powder Diffraction


- Child of:
 [`xraydiffraction`](#xraydiffraction)

- X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) is a rapid analytical technique
primarily used for phase identification of a crystalline material and
can provide information on unit cell dimensions. The analyzed material
is finely ground, homogenized, and average bulk composition is
determined. The geometry of an X-ray diffractometer is such that the
sample rotates in the path of the collimated X-ray beam at an angle
theta while the X-ray detector is mounted on an arm to collect the
diffracted X-rays and rotates at an angle of 2*theta. The instrument
used to maintain the angle and rotate the sample is termed a
goniometer. For typical powder patterns, data is collected at 2theta
from ~5degree to 70degree, angles that are preset in the X-ray scan.
X-ray powder diffraction is most widely used for the identification of
unknown crystalline materials (e.g. minerals, inorganic compounds). (h
ttps://serc.carleton.edu/research_education/geochemsheets/techniques/X
RD.html)

- **Source:**
IUPAC

- Concept URI token: xraypowderdiffraction



---
comment: | 
  WARNING: This file is generated. Any edits will be lost!
execute:
  echo: false
---

[]{#Workflowcomponentsingeologicalsampleanalysismethods}

# **Concept scheme:** Workflow components in geological sample analysis methods

Vocabulary last modified:  2023-02-09

subtitle: 
  This concept scheme contains skos concepts for workflow components in geological sample analysis methods.

Namespace: 
[`http://w3id.org/def/geochem/analyticaltechnique/workflow`](http://w3id.org/def/geochem/analyticaltechnique/workflow)

**History**


- [Workflow Component](#workflowcomponent)
    - [Analytical separation](#analyticalseparation)
        - [Acid Digestion](#aciddigestion)
        - [Chromatography](#chromatography)
            - [Column Chromatography](#columnchromatography)
            - [Gas Chromatography](#gaschromatography)
                - [Pyrolysis Gas Chromatography](#pyrolysisgaschromatography)
            - [Liquid Chromatography](#liquidchromatography)
                - [Medium Pressure Liquid Chromatography](#mediumpressureliquidchromatography)
        - [Electromigration Technique](#electromigrationtechnique)
            - [Capillary Electrophoresis](#capillaryelectrophoresis)
        - [Extraction](#extraction)
            - [Solid-Phase Extraction ](#solidphaseextraction)
    - [sample preparation](#samplepreparation)
        - [Bioanalytical sample preparation](#bioanalyticalsamplepreparation)
            - [DNA Fragmentation](#dnafragmentation)
            - [DNA Library Preparation](#dnalibrarypreparation)
            - [Polymerase Chain Reaction](#polymerasechainreaction)
        - [Microtomy](#microtomy)

**Concepts**

[]{#workflowcomponent}

##  Workflow Component


- top concept for scheme

- **Source:**
add parent workflow component

- Concept URI token: workflowcomponent


[]{#analyticalseparation}

###  Analytical separation


- Child of:
 [`workflowcomponent`](#workflowcomponent)

-

- **Source:**
add parent workflow component

- Concept URI token: analyticalseparation


[]{#aciddigestion}

####  Acid Digestion


- Child of:
 [`analyticalseparation`](#analyticalseparation)

- Process in which the sample (analyte and matrix) is dissolved by an
acid. Acid digestion can also be used to remove a matrix constituent
by selective volatilization, e.g. silicon by the use of hydrofluoric
acid. Acid digestion can be performed in closed or open vessels.
(Source: IUPAC; https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2015-0903)

- **Source:**
IUPAC

- Concept URI token: aciddigestion


[]{#chromatography}

####  Chromatography


- Child of:
 [`analyticalseparation`](#analyticalseparation)

-

- **Source:**
add parent workflow component

- Concept URI token: chromatography


[]{#columnchromatography}

#####  Column Chromatography


- Child of:
 [`chromatography`](#chromatography)

- Chromatography  in which the chromatographic bed is within a tube.
(Source IUPAC: https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2017-0111).

- **Source:**
IUPAC

- Concept URI token: columnchromatography


[]{#gaschromatography}

#####  Gas Chromatography


- Child of:
 [`chromatography`](#chromatography)

- Gas chromatography involves a sample being vaporized and injected
onto the head of the chromatographic column. The sample is transported
through the column by the flow of inert, gaseous mobile phase. The
column itself contains a liquid stationary phase which is adsorbed
onto the surface of an inert solid. Column chromatography in which the
mobile phase is a gas. (Note 1: Gas chromatography is always carried
out in a column.) (Source: IUPAC;
https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2017-0111)

- **Source:**
NASA

- Concept URI token: gaschromatography


[]{#pyrolysisgaschromatography}

######  Pyrolysis Gas Chromatography


- Child of:
 [`gaschromatography`](#gaschromatography)

- Chromatography in which an analytical sample is thermally decomposed
to smaller fragments before entering the column. (Source: IUPAC;
https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2017-0111).

- **Source:**
DFG

- Concept URI token: pyrolysisgaschromatography


[]{#liquidchromatography}

#####  Liquid Chromatography


- Child of:
 [`chromatography`](#chromatography)

-

- **Source:**
add parent workflow component

- Concept URI token: liquidchromatography


[]{#mediumpressureliquidchromatography}

######  Medium Pressure Liquid Chromatography


- Child of:
 [`liquidchromatography`](#liquidchromatography)

- an effcient technique for preparative separation of organic
compounds.   The distinction between low pressure, medium pressure and
high pressure LC is based on the pressure ranges applied in these
techniques and the overlap is often considerable. MPLC allows
purification of large compound quantities and, unlike opencolumn
chromatography and Sash chromatography, faster and improved
separations are obtained. Packing of material with lower particle size
under pressure enhances separation quality and moreover the solid
phase can be reused. Particle size: 15-40 micron; Pressure: 5-20 bar;
Flow rate (ml/min) 3-16;  Sample mass:  0.05-100 g. (https://www.theve
spiary.org/library/Files_Uploaded_by_Users/Sedit/Chemical%20Analysis/E
ncyclopedia%20of%20Separation%20Science/Level%20III%20-
%20Practical%20Applications/MEDIUM%20PRESSURE%20LIQUID%20CHROMATOGRAPH
Y.pdf)

- **Source:**
Own

- Concept URI token: mediumpressureliquidchromatography


[]{#electromigrationtechnique}

####  Electromigration Technique


- Child of:
 [`analyticalseparation`](#analyticalseparation)

-

- **Source:**
add parent workflow component

- Concept URI token: electromigrationtechnique


[]{#capillaryelectrophoresis}

#####  Capillary Electrophoresis


- Child of:
 [`electromigrationtechnique`](#electromigrationtechnique)

- Separation method based solely on the differences in the
electrophoretic mobilities of charged species in capillaries. (Source:
IUPAC; https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2017-0111) An electrokinetic
separation method performed in submillimeter diameter capillaries or
micro- and nanofluidic channels. Sample is introduced into a
capillary. The migration of the analytes is initiated by an electric
field applied between the source and destination vials. In the most
common mode, all ions, positive or negative, are pulled through the
capillary in the same direction by electroosmotic flow. The analytes
separate as they migrate due to their electrophoretic mobility, and
are detected near the outlet end of the capillary. The output of the
detector is sent to a data output and handling device such as an
integrator or computer. The data is displayed as an electropherogram,
which reports detector response as a function of time. Separated
chemical compounds appear as peaks with different migration times in
an electropherogram.

- **Source:**
DFG

- Concept URI token: capillaryelectrophoresis


[]{#extraction}

####  Extraction


- Child of:
 [`analyticalseparation`](#analyticalseparation)

-

- **Source:**
add parent workflow component

- Concept URI token: extraction


[]{#solidphaseextraction}

#####  Solid-Phase Extraction


- Child of:
 [`extraction`](#extraction)

- Extraction of analytes from a gas, liquid, or fluid by transfer to a
solid sorbent. (Source: IUPAC; https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2015-0903)

- **Source:**
IUPAC

- Concept URI token: solidphaseextraction


[]{#samplepreparation}

###  sample preparation


- Child of:
 [`workflowcomponent`](#workflowcomponent)

-

- **Source:**
add parent workflow component

- Concept URI token: samplepreparation


[]{#bioanalyticalsamplepreparation}

####  Bioanalytical sample preparation


- Child of:
 [`samplepreparation`](#samplepreparation)

-

- **Source:**
add parent workflow component

- Concept URI token: bioanalyticalsamplepreparation


[]{#dnafragmentation}

#####  DNA Fragmentation


- Child of:
 [`bioanalyticalsamplepreparation`](#bioanalyticalsamplepreparation)

- Breaking and/or separation of large DNA molecules into smaller
pieces (fragments). Note 1: DNA fragmentation is usually achieved via
cleavage with restriction endonucleases at specific sites  or non-
specifically by, for example, sonication. Note 2: DNA fragmentation is
also a consequence of damage to DNA. (Source: IUPAC;
https://doi.org/10.1515/iupac.90.0262)
- Breaking and/or separation of large DNA molecules into smaller
pieces (fragments). Note 1: DNA fragmentation is usually achieved via
cleavage with restriction endonucleases at specific sites or non-
specifically by, for example, sonication. Note 2: DNA fragmentation is
also a consequence of damage to DNA. (Source: IUPAC;
https://doi.org/10.1515/iupac.90.0262)

- **Source:**
IUPAC

- Concept URI token: dnafragmentation


[]{#dnalibrarypreparation}

#####  DNA Library Preparation


- Child of:
 [`bioanalyticalsamplepreparation`](#bioanalyticalsamplepreparation)

- Next generation sequencing methods require a DNA library preparation
prior to processing. (Own definition)

- **Source:**
Own

- Concept URI token: dnalibrarypreparation


[]{#polymerasechainreaction}

#####  Polymerase Chain Reaction


- Child of:
 [`bioanalyticalsamplepreparation`](#bioanalyticalsamplepreparation)

- Laboratory technique for rapid amplification and pre-determination
of regions of double-stranded DNA using DNA polymerase. (Source:
IUPAC; https://doi.org/10.1515/iupac.90.0262)

- **Source:**
IUPAC

- Concept URI token: polymerasechainreaction


[]{#microtomy}

####  Microtomy


- Child of:
 [`samplepreparation`](#samplepreparation)

- Laboratory methods using special instruments (microtomes) to cut
very thin slices of specimens for microscopic studies. (Source: USGS;
https://apps.usgs.gov/thesaurus/thesaurus-full.php?thcode=2).

- **Source:**
DFG

- Concept URI token: microtomy



